README.md, before:

# Decentralised Content Subscription - NEAR

## MVP
The end goal of this project is to build a peer-to-peer 
subscription model, but with a rust smart contract on the NEAR blockchain
as the backend / database.

Creators will be able to store content as a `String` that can be anything
from markdown, ready to be parsed on the frontend or a youtube link to a private
video (YouTube is not decentralised obviously, but storing video files is beyond
the scope of this project, so youtube will be used for now).

A profile can be either a consumer or a creator, with creators being able to store
content, and set a price for their content.

## To Do

### Backend
- [x] Build out the data struct and methods for the smart contract
- [X] Make the subscription methods payable and apply a payment logic
- [X] Build out the tests
- [X] Deploy on testnet

### Frontend
- [ ] Build the frontend design
- [ ] Connect to the contract
- [ ] Build frontend tests with jest

### Next Steps
- [ ]  Audit / secure the contract

Commit message:

added get_cost and update_cost methods, still working on testing, also added res folder for easier wasm access

README.md, after:

# Decentralised Content Subscription - NEAR

## MVP
The end goal of this project is to build a peer-to-peer subscription model, but
with a rust smart contract on the NEAR blockchain as the backend / database.

Creators will be able to store content as a `String` that can be anything
from markdown, ready to be parsed on the frontend or a youtube link to a private
video (YouTube is not decentralised obviously, but storing video files is beyond
the scope of this project, so youtube will be used for now).

A profile can be either a consumer or a creator, with creators being able to store
content, and set a price for their content.

## To Do

### Backend
- [x] Build out the data struct and methods for the smart contract
- [X] Make the subscription methods payable and apply a payment logic
- [X] Build out the tests
- [X] Deploy on testnet
- [ ] Build out integration tests using workspaces-rs

### Frontend
- [ ] Decide on framework (vanilla-js, next.js, vue, react or yew/rocket-rs??)
- [ ] Build the frontend design
- [ ] Connect to the contract
- [ ] Build frontend tests

### Next Steps
- [ ]  Audit / secure the contract 
  - [ ]  add perishable guard
  - [ ]  add account guards for appropriate get methods
  - [ ]  research other possible areas (re-entrancy etc)

* Found a useful [link](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wC6CS7js-tc) for basic
contract guard fundamentals
