# Decentralised Content Subscription - NEAR

I have decided to document my thoughts as I build this project. Firstly I will provide a summary of the goals of the project, where I am at currently and why I'm building this.

---
### What Am I Building & Why Am I Building It?
---

The primary purpose of this app is to improve my ability and understanding of the rust programming language, as well as my understanding of blockchain based applications (smart contracts as backends). I chose a project thats primary purpose is to allow users to provide and share content, to willing consumers, without asking permission from a centralised governing body, while getting paid to do so. The project will hopefully have enough scope to force me to learn many concepts in both rust, smart contract development and even some frontend development too.

I am building a blockchain based project as I am curious about blockchains ability to provide decentralised, open access yet secure backends for projects due to the underlying nature of the core technology. I began learning Solidity first, but as a python backend developer I see alot of utility in learning rust to speed up applications initially built with python. When I discovered there are blockchains which allow me to build smart contracts (backend / API) in rust, I decided to move away from Solidity as I felt it to be narrower in scope relative to rust, which has non-blockchain applications too.

In order to add some peer pressure to my learning pursuit I attended a bootcamp ran by [encode club](https://www.encode.club/encode-bootcamps) based on the NEAR blockchain. During the bootcamp everyone was encouraged to learn by building something, which could then be presented at some point during the bootcamp. As a user of [Patreon](https://www.patreon.com/) and [Substack](https://substack.com/) I thought that basing my project around these apps but leveraging the blockchains ability to put users data in their control was a good place to start. Again, the purpose of this is purely to teach myself rust and smart contract development. I find I learn best when Im building rather than following templates, and I will remain interested if I'm building something that actually utilises the underlying technologies core concepts. 

---
### A Closer Look
---

To gain a better understanding of what I am building, check out the README.md file in the repo [here](https://github.com/shoorano/decentralised-content-subscription-near), which has a basic layout of the project goals. So far I am still fleshing out the data structures of the project, as well as the implementations of each structure. At the minute a user has the ability to make a creator profile for themselves, then assign a price for subscribers to pay in NEAR. Once created the user can update the price, and other users can subscribe to the creator by simply inputting the creators account. Once subscribe the creators account will receive the allocated funds in their account and the subscriber structure will be updated with the new subscribers account id. Subscribers can then call the `get_content` method (which checks against the creators profiles subscribers structure) and will receive the content as a `String`. This string can be anything from markdown to be parsed on a frontend, or a link to a privately hosted video.

Once I finished the basic structures and implementation methods for each structure and their unittests. I began looking at ways to build integration testing. The primary purpose of the project is to build a better understanding of the backend potential of blockchains, so I have not invested time into building a basic frontend to aid testing yet. Luckily NEAR has near-cli which is a terminal based application which lets you seamlessly:

- Log into a test near account
- Deploy contracts
- Make contract calls 

This provided a good starting point for integration tests on testnet, but writing these out in bash scripts eventually became cumbersome, so I looked at alternatives. Obviously as with most blockchain ecosystems their is a javascript option, but I am here to learn rust, so I tried to avoid this option and luckily came across [workspaces-rs](https://github.com/near/workspaces-rs) via the encode bootcamp. After an initial teething period I eventually got the crate up and running in my repo, which instantly decreased my time taken to build out tests.

>Just as a sidenote, I have found integration testing on NEAR very simple compared to testing on Ethereum. This could easily be due to my own ignorance, but near-cli's ability to build a testnet account, which has a decent amount of NEAR in them saves alot of time dealing with faucets and keeping track of test account wallets etc.

---
### Next Steps
---

So far all my implementations have passed integration testing, so the next steps are as follows:

- Research contract security / best principles (hack/break the contract)
- Update the payment system from a single one off system to a repeat subscription (ish) model.
- Once the above 2 are done, start looking at a frontend framework, I am favouring Yew (a rust based web framework) at the minute for obious reasons (rust!)
- Finish the frontend along with appropriate testing
- Deploy the frontend and link to finished contract on testnet

Completing the above will finish my MVP. After that I will be looking at either another project, or refining this one in terms of gas efficiency and security. Maybe prettifying the frontend, because why not!


