# Decentralised Content Subscription - NEAR - 2

I have decided to look into a recurring payment method for subscribers, as at the minute subscribers pay a one time fee and have access permenantly. This post is my thoughts and ideas for a recurring content subscription mechanism that is purely on chain. 

---
### Initial Thoughts
---

I first thought of a system that is more traditional, and uses dates. Simply add a date when a user subscribes to a creators profile. When a user calls `get_content` (via the frontend or however else), we can check todays date and check if the user needs to pay again. This can lead to tier options such as monthly, annual etc. This makes the mechanism very straight forward and relatable, but the execution is difficult. The difficulty lies in retrieving off chain data (datetime) and pulling it on chain. Ethereum has Chainlink as a viable Oracle (Oracles provide a somewhat decentralised approach to parsing off chain data on chain). I was about to look into this when I wondered if this is even the correct approach.

I figured that the purpose of a content creator is to provide subscribers with content. If they provide good content subscribers will continure paying, if not they will stop. When you pay a monthly subscription, you are trusting that the creator will provide X amount of content in that time period. This system goes against the trustless nature of a smart contract. Why worry about frequency when it comes to payment, why not pay for X units outright. If the creator takes a long time to provide the content then they lose money as the subscribers won't have to renew. A credit system of sorts seems far more applicable for on chain payment systems. 

This of course comes with the risk that the creator produces sub par content. But that risk is still present in a time based payment system anyway. Also the creator is incentivised to publish good content to maintain subscribers anyway.


---
### Formalising The Concept
---

Off the top of my head I think that we can add an extra field to the `Profile` struct which represents the profiles total content count. `content_count` will be incremented by 1 every time content is added. We then also switch the `subscribers` field to a `LookupMap<AccountId, i32>` rather than a `LookupSet<AccountId>`. The `i32` will represent the `content_count` of the creators profile at the time they subscribed. We can then add another field to `Profile` called `payment_interval`, which is simply how many pieces of content the `Profiles cost` amount pays for.

To implement this we can add a constraint to the `get_content` method. The method will check if the differance between the current `content_count` and the count stored with the subscribers account upon subscription is more than the `payment_interval`. If it is the method will panic and return a prompt to re-subscribe (the `subscribe` method could be changed to `top_up` now I think about it). With this we would also need to amend the `subscribe` method to only allow the caller to pay again if they are due, if not panic and prompt the user to simply call `get_content`.

---
### Final Thoughts
---

I realise the contract is definately not secure. I will eventually have to improve my knowledge in this area (and I look forward to it!). But for now I want to wrap up the payment implementations, build the tests and get started on a frontend. I think I will learn alot about the projects utility by actually using it, and will think of other features. One other idea brought about by thinking of this new payment system is adding multiple `payment_interval` options, giving users the option to buy in bulk for instance. As well as this, I also realised that having a single contract for all creators is ludicrous. So once the new payment system is done, and a frontend is built. I will dive into cross-contract calls and creating other contracts on chain. I believe the underlying concepts are so simple, that making creators pay anything to a macro contract seems silly. Open sourcing the contract and allowing users to simply create their own contract seems the preferred option.


Another thought is regarding censorship. I will probably get to this in another post. But I believe simply storing a `String` will prevent any horrendous usage. If the `String` happens to be a link to a server which has horrible content. The server exists regardless of the link being stored on chain, and even better its out in the open. Authorities can access the link. This is why I will write the contracts such that anybody who pays can subscribe. Users who want to publish links to horrible content are actually disincentivised to do so as it's so readily accessible. Lastly the danger of subscribers viewing content they do not wish to see is prevented by the nature of the fact that they should only subscribe to creators they trust, and the creators are incentivised financially to only provide content subscribers want. I can't think of a better utility for blockchain than this. 

> Going forward I would also like to add code to my posts, but time is a factor and I prefer to concetrate on building. So for now at least I will post my most recent [pull request](https://github.com/shoorano/decentralised-content-subscription-near/pull/15/files). Likely not ideal I prefer to concentrate on building for now.